{% raw %}# Fefor Plenary Session

## 15-Jun

|             |                                                                                                                                      |                                             |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| 12:30-14:30 | Lunch                                                                                                                                |                                             |
| 14:30-15:30 | [FeforGrammarians](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforGrammarians),[FeforProcessors](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforProcessors), and [FeforRmrs](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforRmrs) Summary                          | Ann Copestake, Dan Flickinger               |
| 15:30-16:00 | [Whence the Matrix?](http://faculty.washingotn.edu/ebender/Whence_the_Matrix.pdf)                                                    | Emily Bender                                |
| 16:00-16:30 | Coffee Break                                                                                                                         |                                             |
| 16:30-17:00 | [Deep Lexical Acquisition for the ERG and JACY](http://www.csse.unimelb.edu.au/~tim/pubs/delpin2006-ohp.pdf)                         | Tim Baldwin                                 |
| 17:00-17:30 | [Joint Force Deep Lexical Acquisition: Prospect and Rumination](http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/~yzhang/files/zhang-delphin2006.pdf) | Yi Zhang                                    |
| 17:30-18:00 | *Discussion* [Lexical Acquisition for Immature Grammars](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforPlenum_LexicalAcquisitionImmatureGrammars)                             | Moderator: Emily Bender Scribe: Steve Moran |
| 18:00-18:30 | Morphology                                                                                                                           | Ann Copestake                               |

## 16-Jun

|             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                          |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 10:00-12:30 | Optional LOGON Field Studies: Hike to *Feforkampen*                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                          |
| 12:30-14:00 | Lunch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                          |
| 14:00-14:30 | [Heart of Gold Developments and Future Plans](http://www.dfki.de/~uschaefer/delph-in/heartofgold-update-fefor.pdf)                                                                                                                                | UlrichSchaefer                                         |
| 14:30-14:45 | [... and what you can do with HoG](http://www.dfki.de/~frank/fefor_hog_wycd.ppt)                                                                                                                                                                  | Anette Frank, UlrichSchaefer                           |
| 14:45-15:15 | The [SciBorg](/SciBorg) Project at the University of Cambridge                                                                                                                                                                                    | Ann Copestake, CJ Rupp, Ben Waldron                                      |
| 15:15-15:45 | [Blocks, BiTSE and Pieces: Update on developments in Linköping](http://www.ida.liu.se/~lah/delphin/Fefor-Lkpg.pdf)                                                                                                                                | Lars Ahrenberg                                                           |
| 15:45-16:00 | [Turing Center at UW](http://faculty.washington.edu/ebender/Fefor_Turing_Center.pdf)                                                                                                                                                              | Emily Bender                                                             |
| 16:00-16:30 | Coffee Break                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                          |
| 16:30-17:15 | *Discussion* [Extensions: Discontinuous Parsing? Can it be Done Efficiently? Relational Constraints (Basic List and Maybe Set Functionality, Say)? Others?](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforPlenum_Formalism) ([notes](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforPlenum_Formalism)) | Moderators: Berthold Crysmann and Stephan Oepen Scribe: Petter Haugereid |
| 17:15-17:45 | [''Discussion'' MRS in Translation and the Prospects for MRS-Based Interlinguas vs. MRS-Based Transfer](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforMRSinTranslation) [Slides](http://www.ida.liu.se/~lah/delphin/Fefor-MrsInTransl.pdf)                                                 | Moderator: Lars Ahrenberg Scribe: Valia Kordoni                          |
| 17:45-18:15 | [Latest Results from the Hinoki Project at NTT](http://www.kecl.ntt.co.jp/icl/mtg/members/sanae/pubs/hinoki-lexeed-status2006.pdf)                                                                                                                | Sanae Fujita & Francis Bond                                              |
| 19:30       | *festmiddag* (Joint Dinner)                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                                                          |

## 17-Jun

|             |                                                                                                                                                    |                                                   |     |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|-----|
| 09:00-09:30 | Portuguese LXGram: Advances so far and plans                                                                                                       | António Branco                                    |     |
| 09:30-10:00 | [Benefits of Using the LKB and Grammar Engineering for Field Linguists](http://staff.washington.edu/stiv/presentations/Moran-Fefor-06.pdf)         | Steven Moran                                      |     |
| 10:00-10:30 | [The LOGON MT Project and its Use of (and Contributions to) DELPH-IN Resources](http://share.emmtee.net/pub/bscw.cgi/d58795/delphin.17-jun-06.pdf) | Stephan Oepen, Dan Flickinger                     |     |
| 10:30-11:00 | Coffee Break                                                                                                                                       |                                                   |     |
| 11:00-11:30 | [Realization Ranking and Experimentation in \[incr tsdb()](http://folk.uio.no/erikve/pubs/delphin06-slides.pdf)\]                                  | Erik Velldal                                      |     |
| 11:30-12:00 | Accurate Retrieval of Relational Concepts from Huge Textbases                                                                                      | Yusuke Miyao                                      |     |
| 12:00-12:30 | *Discussion* [Open Issues](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforOpenIssues)                                                                                                        | Moderator: Francis Bond Scribe: Emily Bender      |     |
| 12:30-14:30 | Lunch                                                                                                                                              |                                                   |     |
| 14:30-15:00 | [NorSource](/NorSource): Current State, Development Issues                                                                                         | Lars Hellan, Dorothee Beermann                    |     |
| 15:00-15:30 | *Discussion* Whether to Propose an ACL SIG on Deep Linguistic Processing                                                                           | Moderator: Emily Bender Scribe: David Goss-Grubbs |     |
| 15:30-16:00 | German Grammar: Current Applications to MT and Prosody Planning                                                                                    | Berthold Crysmann                                 |     |
| 16:00-16:30 | Coffee Break                                                                                                                                       |                                                   |     |
| 16:30-17:00 | [''Discussion'' Towards a Parallel DELPH-IN Corpus and Increased Comparability](http://www.dfki.de/~frank/fefor_par_corp.ppt)                      | Moderator: Anette Frank Scribe: Stephan Oepen     |     |
| 17:00-17:30 | *Wrap up*                                                                                                                                          |                                                   |     |
| 19:45-22:14 | Vinstra -- Gardemoen                                                                                                                               |                                                   |     |

Last update: 2021-06-03 by Olga Zamaraeva [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/FeforPlenum/_edit)]{% endraw %}