{% raw %}# Processing session

To take place on the 13th and the morning of the 14th, with small group
activities (see [FeforSmallGroups](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforSmallGroups)) proceeding
throughout the week at Fefor. [FeforRmrs](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforRmrs) will take place on
the afternoon of the 14th and morning of the 15th. The emphasis in the
processing sessions is intended to be on practical activities that are
best done face-to-face and where we can achieve concrete results while
at Fefor. In particular, getting existing resources working more widely
and improving the wiki documentation. We also hope to make progress on
ongoing collaborative activities, especially those that require
negotiations of interface standards and so on.

Participants should feel free to add additional information to sessions
(obviously large scale additions are best done with new pages), but
should email AnnCopestake with suggestions of changes to
schedule and topics. Names below are of presenters and also of proposers
of discussion topics: leaders of discussions and scribes will be added
when we can work out load. Please email AnnCopestake to
volunteer.

## 13-Jun

|               |                                                            |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| 09:30 - 10:30 | Joint meeting to discuss organization, working groups etc. |
| 10:30 - 11:00 | Initial working group meetings over coffee                 |
| 11:00 - 12:30 | Session on testing for developers                          |
| 12:30 - 14:00 | Lunch                                                      |
| 14:00 - 16:00 | Interfaces, preprocessors and standoff annotation          |
| 16:00 - 16:30 | Coffee                                                     |
| 16:30 - 18:30 | [Small group activities](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforSmallGroups)                 |

## 14-Jun

|               |                                                                                                                                                             |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 09:30 - 10:30 | [Small group activities](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforSmallGroups)                                                                                                                  |
| 10:30 - 11:00 | Coffee                                                                                                                                                      |
| 11:00 - 12:30 | Presentation/Demonstration: [LkbTrollet](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/tools/LkbTrollet): tool for multilingual grammar engineering - a wrapper around the LKB (PavelMihaylov) |
|               | Other tools, small groups                                                                                                                                   |
| 12:30 - 14:00 | Lunch                                                                                                                                                       |
| 14:00         | Begin joint discussion on [MRS/RMRS](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforRmrs)                                                                                                             |

## Testing (technology and practice for developers)

- Automated testing (FrancisBond,
UlrichSchaefer, cf. also
[TestingWithAnt](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/garage/TestingWithAnt))
  
  - Everyone agreed it was a good idea, and that we neeed a
framework people can add too
  - Ulrich described some of their success with ant, and noone
objected to its use
- Action Points
  - Ulrich and Oe: look at getting HoG and PET into the standard
distribution tree
  - CJ and Ann: look at building a framework based on ANT for
testing with [SciBorg](/SciBorg) at Cambridge

## Interfaces, preprocessors and standoff annotation

- [FeforStandoffAnnotationInterface](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/FeforStandoffAnnotationInterface)
/ SMAF (BenWaldron and
UlrichSchaefer)
  
  - Everyone: collect examples of deep/shallow interface issues so
we can design a language for the interface
- Preprocessors (FrancisBond)
- PET API (proposal, discussion) (UlrichSchaefer)
  
  - Uli to start outline on the wiki: [FeforPetApi](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/garage/FeforPetApi)
- Grammar interfaces: clear interface for robustness-related grammar
elements (paths/types/pos-tags/expected tokenization/punctuation
etc.) e.g. specified in the inline documentation in such a way that
it could be processed/extracted automatically from grammar sources.
Initial discussion here: later discussion in plenary session if
appropriate.
  - General Issues discussed, more specific issues â†’ working group
(led by Ben)
  - Document the proposed lexical type naming (Dan?)

## Tools

- Presentation/Demonstration: Trollet: tool for multilingual grammar
engineering - a wrapper around the LKB
(PavelMihaylov)

## Discussion on lexicon building

- Now plenary session only

Last update: 2011-10-09 by anonymous [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/FeforProcessors/_edit)]{% endraw %}