{% raw %}# Open Issues Meta Discussion

This page logs some of the discussion we had about managing open issues
and how to best channel effort (e.g., student research) to projects
which are of high priority but not otherwise currently being addressed.
The main page for open issues is [OpenissuesTop](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/OpenissuesTop), and
instructions for adding or modifying open issues are given there.

Many topics come up repeatedly which are too complicated to solve in one
meeting or one research project for which they are not central. Need
better connection to DELPH-IN external and internal folks who are
looking for things to work on (PhD theses, MA theses)

People download our stuff, play with it, but don't keep in contact.
Sometimes useful products we don't know about, sometimes things that
could have been more useful/better if they were created in communication
with us. Somehow make it easier to know who to talk to within DELPH-IN
and that they are willing to be approached!

Especially needed for linguists who are primarily linguists but a bit
computationally inclined. DELPH-IN provides big infrastructure that
can't be created by any individuals, esp. not by linguists. But, only
really works with human connection to someone inside DELPH-IN.

At the same time, there are ways in which these open issues can interest
the broader computational community, and DELPH-IN can benefit from that
interest: state of the art statistical technology on top of our
grammars, extract features from our representations in a computationally
feasible way, run existing toolkits in combination. DELPH-IN resources
can articulate problems, provide large, open-source multilingual
resources --- present and present our needs to ML people.

Making the resources accessible to ML people requires some repackaging.
Extracting treebanks from \[incr tsdb()\] so that e.g., supertagging is
a shared task. TimBaldwin volunteers to maintain
repository of repackaged treebanks and/or include export scripts in
DELPH-IN repository. If we can present a DELPH-IN shared task, the large
ML community will probably come to call. There are some issues with
managing it so that folks don't obsess over less-relevant small tasks.
What are the interesting open issues that are amenable to this approach?
Minimize the number of assumptions (over-simplifying) in the task set
up.

Last update: 2006-06-29 by EmilyBender [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/FeforOpenIssues/_edit)]{% endraw %}