{% raw %}# DELPH-IN First Working Meeting (Lisbon, 2005)

Following is the schedule for the DELPH-IN working meeting held from
August 18 to 21 in Lisbon, Portugal. Slide copies and discussion notes
are available in many cases, linked from the title cell in each slot.

## Thursday, August 18

|             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                        |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 9:00        | [Introduction: What is DELPH-IN, What are we Doing Here?](http://www.dfki.de/~hansu/delphin/DELPH-IN-Lisbon_Intro.pdf)                                                                                                                                                     | HansUszkoreit                                                         |
| 9:30        | Recent and upcoming extensions to the LKB and \[incr tsdb()\]                                                                                                                                                                                                              | StephanOepen                                                           |
| 10:00       | [HPSG Processing at DFKI and Saarland University: Summary of Results and Plans](http://www.dfki.de/~hansu/delphin/DELPH-IN-Lisbon_Saarbruecken.pdf)                                                                                                                        | HansUszkoreit                                                         |
| 10:30-11:00 | Coffee break                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                        |
| 11:00-11:45 | [Discussion I: Designing and creating a DELPH-IN repository (systems, tools, data, lingware)](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonRepositoryDiscussion)                                                                                                                                                  | Moderator: StephanOepen, Scribe: UlrichSchaefer      |
| 11:45-12:30 | [Discussion II: Strategies for documentation of grammars and tools](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonDocumentationDiscussion)                                                                                                                                                                         | Moderator: FrancisBond, Scribe: ChikaraHashimoto    |
| 12:30-14:00 | Lunch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                        |
| 14:00-14:30 | [Robust unification in PET](http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/~fouvry/files/rcu.pdf)/[Viewing unfilled feature structures in the LKB](http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/~fouvry/files/unfilling.pdf)                                                                           | FrederikFouvry                                                       |
| 14:30-15:15 | [Discussion III: What do we want to get out of DELPH-IN? Given that, how should we decide who else to approach, and how should we approach them?](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonExpectationsDiscussion)                                                                                            | Moderator: ValiaKordoni, Scribe: [AlexandrosPoulis](/AlexandrosPoulis) |
| 15:15-16:00 | [Discussion IV: What can we do to promote the visibility of DELPH-IN and its agenda within the field of computational linguistics? (Subtopic: What material should we add to the website, and how can this be done in a distributed fashion?)](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonVisibilityDiscussion) | Moderator: FrederikFouvry, Scribe: JesseTseng          |
| 16:00-16:30 | Coffee break                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |                                                                                        |
| 16:30       | [Statistical Approach towards Deep Lexical Acquisition](http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/~yzhang/files/delphin-lisbon.pdf)                                                                                                                                                  | YiZhang                                                                     |
| 17:00       | A methodology for the development of wide-coverage HPSG grammars                                                                                                                                                                                                           | [YusukeMiyao](/YusukeMiyao)                                                            |
| 17:30       | Matrix Modules: Development and User Interface                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | EmilyBender and DanFlickinger                          |

## Friday, August 19

|             |                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                     |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 9:00        | [TIGER 700 RMRS Bank: RMRS Construction from TIGER Dependencies](http://www.dfki.de/~frank/delphin-tiger_700_rmrs.pdf)                                                           | [KathrinSpreyer](/KathrinSpreyer) and [AnetteFrank](/AnetteFrank)                   |
| 9:30        | [A text interface for deep linguistic processing: General input text](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~bmw20/Papers/DELPHIN05-A_%22text_interface%22_for_deep_linguistic_processing.pdf) | BenWaldron                                                            |
| 10:00       | [Multi-verb constructions in a West African Language](http://www.ling.hf.ntnu.no/nufu/DELPH-IN2005.pdf)                                                                          | [LarsHellan](/LarsHellan) and [DorotheeBeermann](/DorotheeBeermann)                 |
| 10:30-11:00 | Coffee break                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                     |
| 11:00       | [French](http://www.loria.fr/~tseng/files/tseng-delphin.pdf)                                                                                                                     | JesseTseng                                                            |
| 11:30       | Spanish and Catalan Grammars: Lexical Clustering                                                                                                                                 | [MontserratMarimon](/MontserratMarimon) and [NuriaBel](/NuriaBel)                   |
| 12:00       | [The Hinoki Treebank: Toward Text Understanding](http://www.kecl.ntt.co.jp/icl/mtg/members/bond/pubs/2005-delphin-hinoki.pdf)                                                    | FrancisBond                                                          |
| 12:30-14:00 | Lunch                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                     |
| 14:00-14:30 | [SEM-I](http://lingo.stanford.edu/dan/semi.lisbon.2005.pdf)                                                                                                                      | AnnCopestake and DanFlickinger                     |
| 14:30-15:00 | [Heart of Gold Overview](http://www.dfki.de/~uschaefer/heartofgold_delph-in.pdf)                                                                                                 | UlrichSchaefer                                                    |
| 15:00-15:45 | [Discussion V: Developing a distributed means of testing LKB updates](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonTestingDiscussion)                                                                                   | Moderator: FrancisBond, Scribe: ChikaraHashimoto |
| 15:45-16:00 | [Discussion VI: Developing a standard DELPH-IN open source license](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonLicensingDiscussion)                                                                                   | Moderator: [WoodleyPackard](/WoodleyPackard), Scribe: JeffGood          |
| 16:00-16:30 | Coffee break                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                     |
| 16:30       | GramaXing Project and new Portuguese Grammar                                                                                                                                     | AntonioBranco                                                      |
| 17:00       | Montage: HPSG Grammar Engineering for Language Documentation                                                                                                                     | EmilyBender and JeffGood                                 |
| 17:30       | Business meeting                                                                                                                                                                 |                                                                                     |

## Saturday, August 20

|             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                           |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 9:00        | [JACY: Recent developments, Plans and Ideas](http://www.dfki.de/~siegel/JACY-Lisbon-2005-08.pdf)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | [MelanieSiegel](/MelanieSiegel)                                                                           |
| 9:30        | [Status Quo of Korean Resource Grammar and A Korean-Japanese Joint Project](http://andante.kangnam.ac.kr/~jhyang/down/lisbon-korean.pdf)                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | JongBokKim and [JaehyungYang](/JaehyungYang)                                                |
| 10:00       | Modern Greek Resource Grammar: Present and Future                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | [AlexandrosPoulis](/AlexandrosPoulis), ValiaKordoni, and FrederikFouvry |
| 10:30-11:00 | Coffee break                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                           |
| 11:00       | [Challenges and Opportunities for Hybrid Deep and Shallow Processing Approaches: Applications and Chances for Cooperation](http://www.dfki.de/~hansu/delphin/DELPH-IN-Lisbon_Hybrid.pdf)                                                                                                                                                                  | HansUszkoreit                                                                            |
| 11:30-12:30 | [Discussion VII: Research avenues: Future applications, resources, tools, additional features for existing tools. What's ripe to work on now? What other appropriate avenues are waiting on what prerequisite developments? What strategies seem promising for moving grammars to new domains, and what technology would help?](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonResearchDiscussion) | Moderator: [AnetteFrank](/AnetteFrank), Scribe: PetterHaugereid                        |
| 12:30-14:00 | Lunch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                           |
| 14:00       | [German Grammar: Morphological Component, MRS Output, First Results in Generation](http://www.dfki.de/~crysmann/GerGram.pdf)                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | BertholdCrysmann                                                                      |
| 14:30       | NorSource - current developments (preposition semantics)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | [LarsHellan](/LarsHellan) and [DorotheeBeermann](/DorotheeBeermann)                                       |
| 15:00       | [Scandinavian Matrix Swedish Grammars](http://www.ida.liu.se/~lah/delphin/LisbonAug05-Lkpg.pdf)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | [LarsAhrenberg](/LarsAhrenberg) and SaraStymne                                              |
| 15:30-16:00 | [Discussion VIII: Comparative evaluation](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonEvaluationDiscussion)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Moderator: [YusukeMiyao](/YusukeMiyao), Scribe: YiZhang                                        |
| 16:00-16:30 | Coffee break                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                                                           |
| 16:30-17:30 | [Discussion IX: Matrix updates: What would the community like to see? What makes it feasible to integrate new Matrix versions? What kinds of community input to Matrix developers would be most effective?](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonMatrixDiscussion)                                                                                                                       | Moderator: DanFlickinger Scribe: ScottDrellishak                      |
| 17:30       | Concluding Remarks                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | DanFlickinger                                                                            |

## Related pages

- [LisbonDiscussionSuggestions](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonDiscussionSuggestions)

Last update: 2011-10-09 by anonymous [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/LisbonScheduleIdeas/_edit)]{% endraw %}