{% raw %}# Overview

The [DELPH-IN](http://www.delph-in.net) Standing Committee proposed to
hold a first internal working meeting, aiming to bring together
developers and active users of DELPH-IN resources to date. The meeting
will be held prior to the [International HPSG
Conference](http://hpsg2005.di.fc.ul.pt/) in Lisboa (Portugal);
participants will meet for three full days, between Thursday, August 18,
and Saturday, August 20, 2005.

Based on introspection about DELPH-IN distribution, the Standing
Committee invited researchers from some twenty R&D sites to participate
in the meeting, and around 35 individuals are expected to be present for
the meeting. An up-to-date summary of expected participants can be found
on the [ParticipantsGroup](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/ParticipantsGroup) page.

# Aims of the Meeting

The purposes of this meeting are:

- update each other on recent developments and current activities
- discuss more what we actually expect from DELPH-IN (and each other)
- create the opportunity for some contentful exchange on computational
grammar research in the DELPH-IN spirit

In order to meet these goals, we are designing a program which consists
primarily of time for participants to present their current activities
(20 minutes + 10 minutes for discussion), in addition to several
organized discussions.

# Schedule & Materials

A more-or-less finalized schedule is available at
[LisbonScheduleIdeas](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonScheduleIdeas). Slide copies and minutes for
discussion slots are available in many cases (linked from the title cell
in the schedule). Presenters and scribes, please add links and materials
as you see fit!

# Organizational

The DELPH-IN meeting is borrowing infrastructure from the HPSG
Conference organizers; specifically, Antonio Branco helped a great deal
in preparing the meeting. DELPH-IN participants will meet at the same
site as the main HPSG Conference: [detailed
instructions](http://hpsg2005.di.fc.ul.pt/venue.htm) are available from
the HPSG web pages. Participants will need to make their own hotel
arrangements, but again the HPSG conference site provides some
[recommendations](http://hpsg2005.di.fc.ul.pt/registration.htm#accommodation).

DELPH-IN participants will be served a warm lunch on all three days of
the meeting. Drinks and snacks will be available for individual purchase
at the meeting site throughout the day. To recover the cost of renting a
room and network service from the University of Lisbon and to pay for
the lunches, participants will be charged a registration fee of EUR 70,
to be paid (cash) during the meeting. We will supply receipts for the
registration fee.

# Pictures of the event

See the pictures from the DELPH-IN meeting held in Lisbon on the
[LisbonPictures](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LisbonPictures) page.

Last update: 2011-10-09 by anonymous [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/LisbonTop/_edit)]{% endraw %}