{% raw %}Please contact Olga at olga.zamaraeva at gmail, if you would like to go
to [Night Safari](http://www.nightsafari.com.sg/), which is a special
zoo that opens at night! We can go Thursday or Friday night, I just want
to make sure everyone knows about it :). We will probably need to go by
taxi, but it is not very far, I expect it to be perhaps around $10 per
person, if 3 people share a cab? (I don't really know, but it should not
be much more). The zoo itself is a bit pricey: $42 I think, but it
sounds really cool. There is a restaurant there, or we can eat somewhere
first and then go. It is open till midnight.

Ned: According to Mike, the early (7:30pm) tickets are booked out (also
for Friday), which means the remaining tickets are for 9:30pm.

Olga: Oh, that's great that Mike checked that! I would still go, even at
9:30. It does take some time to get there, and dinner also takes time,
so it even makes sense to do it at 9:30. Although -- I thought there
where just walking paths there, not only tram tours? But I guess they
might just restrict the number of tickets anyway.

Update from Olga: I suspect that the online tickets are for the show. I
would OK with not watching the show or with not doing the tram ride, for
that matter (people write in reviews they had to stand in line for an
hour and a half for the tram), and just do the walking trails. It seems
like going there after 9 pm is still a good idea, as there may be fewer
people. Looks like maybe Melanie and I are going today after dinner, so
join us!

Further (final?..) update from Olga:

In the end, I think we're not going this time... I called them, and the
person on the phone actually said she doesn't recommend that we come
until the 10th, because it is going to be extremely crowded and the wait
will be 2-3 hours (!). So... I think we should do something else
tonight, like go to the city.
<update date omitted for speed>{% endraw %}