{% raw %}## Discussion: Scopal and Non-Scopal Modifiers

Moderator: GuyEmerson Scribe: EmilyBender

    Kim didn't speak for a long time.
    Kim deliberately didn't speak.

Dan: *didn't speak for a long time* ex is quite a nice case study. Does
it make sense to say yes it's ambiguous and the *for along time* takes
as label the neg\_rel but takes as ARG1 the ARG0 of event of speaking.
If we want the ARG0 of the neg\_rel, that forces it out into the open,
which we haven't wanted.

Guy: Ann says it seems strange to talk about a negated event, to have
negation itself is a SOA.

Dan: *not speaking is fun* --- what is the thing that's fun? What's the
argument of fun. Not just speaking, it's the non-speaking that's fun.

Emily: But if *not speaking* is a nominalization, then we have an 'x'.

Guy: But that variable is just as dodgy as the negated variable. We have
to justify one of these variables.

Dan: If you move out of the MRS into the real universe, what are you
saying isn't fun?

Guy: In the model of the world.

Dan: There needs to be some state of affairs we're talking about.

Guy: What is a state of affairs that is a nominalization.

Dan: Maybe this takes us too far afield.

Guy: But maybe it's an argument if we have to be able to refer to it.

Emily: Can it be the antecedent of anaphora? Someone else think of it
while I'm typing.

Dan: *John didn't speak. It really surprised us because John always
speaks.*

Emily: But we know that *it* can refer back to propositions.

Dan: *\*John didn't speak and Kim did so.*

Woodley: *\*John probably spoke and so did Mary.*

Oe: *John frequenty visits and so does Mary.* --- Is *frequently*
scopal?

Dan: It satisfies the entailment test.

Berthold: A presupposition attached to *so*... do we represent negation
as events.

Dan: If it's really there, then you ought to be able to pick it out with
an anaphor like *so*.

Woodley: Can you pick out the event for *blue* in *A blue dog just
walked by* with an anaphor? Maybe it's too stringent of a test.

Dan/Glenn: *John didn't speak, neither did Mary.*

Emily: So what's going on there? ... refers back to event inside the
negation.

Berthold: Making neg transparent to INDEX of complement --- neg LBL
shared with intersective modifier (in high attachment), with ARG1 = ARG0
of verb.

Emily: That's what happens now, if we allow high attachment.

Woodley: But that doesn't work so well for *Kim deliberately didn't
speak*. Are we really happy with ARG0 of speak as ARG1 of deliberately?

Emily: What I'm missing is a connection between our representations and
the actual interpretations/things we can test like entailment.

Guy: Depends on what you want to do with negation in the object
language. If it's just logical negation, it has to apply to
propositions, and that doesn't help here.

Dan: *Kim deliberately failed to speak* --- not just a fiddling with
scope. *failed* introduces a new predication with speak down inside.
There *fail* supplies us with what we all assume is a predication.
Somehow the action that was constrained was the speaking one, but the
deliberateness is about the failing.

Guy/Dan: If we can talk about failing events, maybe we can talk about
negation events?

Francis: *Kim failed to speak and so did Mary.* --- that one's fine.

Glenn: The do support?

Woodley: Something just weird about English.

Emily: Which do support?

Glenn: The one in the first clause.

Emily: But that one's semantically empty.

Woodley: Maybe it's not?

Dan: *\*Kim wasn't happy and Mary was too.* It's not about the do
support.

Dan: *Kim failed to be happy and so did Mary.*

oe: *Kim never danced. So did Mary.* Star?

Dan/Francis: Star.

Guy: Failing seems to imply more active involvement.

oe: *Kim almost fell. So did Mary.* Also a scopal modifier.

oe: *Kim probably will turn out famous. And so will Mary.* Maybe we're
putting too much work on the *so* anaphor.

Dan: Then give us another test.

Woodley: *Kim deliberately didn't speak.* / *Kim managed not to speak.*

John: *Deliberately* not a great choice of word because with the
post-posed variant, there's also the deliberately as slowly version.

Emily: \[Tries to explain the current ERS.\]

Woodley: Can you give me a world scenario where one is true and not the
other.

Guy: In terms of intention to speak and whether or not speaking
happened.

oe: Emily just misused the entailment test. It only goes one direction
--- entailment doesn't show anything. So we don't know that
*deliberately* is non-scopal.

Emily: Can we construct a slightly more complicated example that gives
us different scope possibilities.

Guy: Scope possibilities is a separate question from denotation.

Woodley: I'd like to be able to find differences that aren't just
lexical semantics but have to do with the structure.

Emily: My point was that the denotations might be world-equivalent, but
allow different flexibilities in more complicated examples.

oe: *Kim successfully didn't speak.* *Kim succeeded in not speaking.*

Dan: But there's a nominalization there.

oe: Play the same trick with a verb that actually selects a VP and has a
closely-related looking adverb.

Dan/Guy: Back to big questions:

- Is the denotational distinction clear in practice?
- Is the scoping machinery adequate?

Woodley: Do we have a collective sense of whether or not *deliberately*
is scopal?

Emily: And how would we know?

oe: Clear scope ambiguities might help...

Guy: That would assume that the scoping machinery is correct in all
cases.

oe: You're pulling many rugs out from under us.

Jan-Tore: If *heavily* is intersective, shouldn't *it's raining heavily*
also entail *it's heavily*. What about subsective modifiers?

Emily/Dan: We're trying to move to scopal/non-scopal, but we have
intersective as a label in the grammar (incorrectly).

Guy: In terms of what the MRS gives us, it's saying that once you've
expanded the scope tree there's some event that is raining, and some
event heavy that takes it as its argument. Once you've quantified the
event variables, then you have a complex predicate which you could be
intersecting with the rain predicate. We're intersecting the things that
are raining events and the set of things that have an associated heavy
event.

Glenn: Would it be better to say the set of events that are heavy?

Guy: That's not what we have in the MRS. We have two events --- raining
and heavy. We have the second variable in case we need to modify it
again. This is not a move that every semanticist makes.

Emily: What about *Kim probably baked a cake for Sandy.* / *Kim baked a
cake probably for Sandy.* --- seems like a surprising generalization of
degree specifiers for me. These examples came up because I was looking
for cases where the label of *bake* and *for* might need to be
different.

Dan: So what do you want the representation to be?

Guy/Woodley: *probably* as a scopal modifier of *for*, *probably* shares
label with *bake*, qeq *for* label as ARG1; *for* takes ARG0 of *bake*.

Dan: And *Kim baked a cake not for Sandy*?

oe/Woodley: Same.

Berthold: *The most probable answer to our problem is X.*/*The answer to
our problem is most probably X.* Different in the ERG.

Dan: The ERG implements the hypothesis that there are no scopal
adjectives.

Guy: Is that right?

Dan: Show me some tests. Alex Lascarides says there aren't any. Treat
them as the same. If that's wrong, then show me the tests.

Jan Tore: Entailment.

Guy: Is a probable solution a solution?

Jan Tore: Certain non-intersective adjectives will fail, but they're not
scopal either. Earlier we said that that test is just one way, but
adjectives are a counterexample.

Emily: I have in the past convinced myself that there are enough
readings of *The most probable winner of every medal was disqualified*
that we need the *every* to be able to go in between *probable* and
*winner*. But this is the kind of test you told me I couldn't use.

Woodley: Question is if *stone lion* commits you to its being a lion.

Dan: *Did you see the stone lion in front of the bank?* *That's not a
lion, that's a tiger*

Francis: Ham sandwich.

Dan: It's not a ham sandwich it's a lion.

Francis: Coercion from lion and representation of a lion.

Dan: You want it to be ambiguous?

Guy: Diff between metonymy and literal meaning.

Francis: A stone lion is not literally a lion.

Woodley: *former* is better. Saying *a former X* isn't committing to it
being an X.

Glenn: Correcting intensional contexts is kind of out of scope here.

Guy: So the answer to the first question is no --- the denotational
distinction is not clear cut. Not a very clear test.

oe: Are there really people who think stone lions aren't lions?

Francis: Me! A representation of a lion is not a lion.

Dan: What about a stuffed lion?

Francis: Depends on whether it originally was a lion.

Emily: Then it's a former lion!

Emily: But even if we find clarity in the literature on this, we still
have the problem that the test goes in only one direction.

oe: *Monday's solution to the problem turned out to be wrong.* It wasn't
a solution actually, but it was one on Monday. By that same reasoning, a
former politician is in the set of politications, but the set membership
has spatio-temporal extent?

Woodley: So does the event of not speaking have the predicate speak be
true of it?

Guy: How could that be true of a non-speaking event? If we say someone
didn't speak, we're not committing to them speaking at some other point.
(Unlike with *former*).

Woodley: Exactly. In order for these to be parallel, you have that
strange situation ... unless you're talking about strict logical
negation, you're going to have speak(e) when you're talking about not
speaking.

Guy: We're not committing to there being a speaking event.

Emily: Speaker commitments not every bit of the MRS, but calculated over
the whole thing.

Guy: Not doing quantifiers for event variables yet, because don't yet
know how. But if we treat them the same as every other variable, we'll
need to quantify them somehow. So just because there's an event variable
in the MRS, doesn't mean we're committing to it.

Woodley: Right. *Kim didn't speak for a long time* with high attachment
of *for a long time* taking speak's ARG0 as its ARG1 but sharing LBL
with neg, then the quantifier for speak's ARG0 has to be outside neg as
well.

Guy: Create new predicate not-speak that maps from events to truth
values.

Woodley: If not-speak is an opaque predicate...

Guy: It's compositional. We have to have some way of mapping from one
kind of truth conditional function to a new one. Could be as simple as
flip the truth value. When ever speaking is true, not speaking is false,
and vice versa. Does require committing to being able to talk about not
speaking events, and in this case it's also a for-a-long-time event.

oe: In this case, there's something in conventional logic that looks
very tempting. But what about *almost* in *almost succeeded* --- much
easier to start talking about states of affairs that are the almost
ones.

Emily: So you're saying that we're being misled by the similarity
between logical negation and natural language negation.

oe: Yes.

Emily: That brings up another question that I have: Why do we have a
difference between heads that take scopal arguments and promote their
own ARG0 as index and those that attach as modifiers which are
transparent.

Guy: Transparent?

oe: Are shy about their intrinsic variables.

Guy: That's about composition, which I was trying to avoid here.

Emily: But also about representations, because some of the possibilities
we are considering here are only made possible because of that
transparency.

Francis: Back to stone lion. Nick Asher shows interesting facts from
distributional semantics.

Berthold: But compounds might not be syntax...

Guy: Not clear-cut.

Woodley: So what's the alternative?

Guy: Yeahs, seems like a shame to get rid of info that we have.

Glenn: If there's a vilage of lions and there's one who sells stone,
he'd be the stone lion ... and he actually is a lion.

Guy: On the second question --- we agree that we want two readings for
*Kim didn't speak for a long time* but not yet sure whether we want to
have negation events, or whether natural language negation should be the
same as logical negation. Maybe *almost* gives better examples.

Woodley: *Kim almost spoke for a long time* / \**How long did she
almost?*

Dan: Are we getting to a point where we see a very deep divide between
*Kim never spoke* and *Kim rarely spoke*. The second one entails that
Kim spoke at least once. But they seem like they're very close. Do we
suddenly flip to a different type of modifier. Is *rarely* a different
kind of modifier from *not*.

oe: These could all be scopal.

Dan: But what about *frequently* --- where in the cline are you going to
make that cut.

Glenn: I don't think we can avoid treating zero as a categorically
different thing.

oe: *rarely* and *frequently* come out on the other side of the
entailment test than *not* and *never*, but they could all still be
scopal.

Guy: Here's the slippery slope. Make everything scopal?

Dan: *almost never* means about the same thing as *rarely*.

Francis: It's a slippery slope. We know it. We don't know how and where
to draw the line, but would like some reason to draw it.

oe: Or not draw it at all. Guy is dangling that possibility in front of
us.

Emily: So trying that out and seeing where we get tangled up might lead
us to a test that goes the other direction.

Guy: Comes back to *Kim didn't speak for a long time*

oe: Doesn't Emily's thought experiment fix that for us? Two readings.

Dan: What about *Kim didn't speak loudly.*

oe: Two readings.

Dan: What's the other one?

Francis: \[Doesn't speak, loudly\]

Emily: The silence was deafening.

Dan: I'm sure that's what that sentence means.

oe: But we're in the habit of giving more scoped readings than are
easily teased out in the world.

Emily: Just a few...

* * *

Continued as SIG on Friday:

oe: Examples like *I'm happy to discuss*/*We happily discuss*: These are
very close, do we want them to be so different in the ERS?

Emily/oe: Both attribute to each other the thought experiment of
treating all adverbial modfiers uniformly, as scopal.

oe: If someone is trying to give us an MRS to generate from, this can be
hard to predict if we can't describe the distinction.

Emily: Isn't this info in the SEM-I?

oe: Currently we have modifiers that have both scopal and non-scopal
entries.

oe: Haven't paid enough attention to Guy's third item from last time.
There's a syntactic perspective/folk wisdom that only one of the two
types extracts.

*Happily, I understand the dog is barking.* -- ambiguous.

Guy: *Quickly, I understand the dog is running* -- odd.

Emily: *Yesterday, I understand the dog went running.* ok

oe: But we know that the time ones are scopal: *Kim didn't speak for a
long time*

Emily: Scopal vs. non-scopal is different from high vs. low.

Guy: High attachment of non-scopal is not algebra-compliant.

Woodley: Possible coincidence about the adverbs that we've been looking
at. The ones that we seem to want to be non-scopal typically have the
property that they can be interpreted as referring to the subject.

Emily: In what sense does *yesterday* refer to the subject?

Woodley: Not talking about those yet. Take *happily*. *Happily, I will
eat chocolate.*

David: But *Happily, my dog wasn't sick.*

Emily: Here's an example where we probably need two entries. *Happily*
the speaker stance adverb (probably scopal, on current distinction) and
the one that you say refers to the subject.

Woodley: So maybe there are three.

Emily: Three?? That was one of two for me.

Woodley: *Happily, the dog didn't get sick.*, *The dog was happy to not
get sick.*. *The dog happily did not get sick.*

Emily: Only two of those are *happily*

Woodley: But maybe they're the same predicate.

Guy: Try a different word with less ambiguity: *fortunately*.
*Fortunately, it didn't happen.* *It was fortunate that...*

Woodley: *Quick* is unambiguous the other way. *I was quick to eat
chocolate.*

Emily: But for *happily* you're trying to merge a non-scopal use with a
raising or maybe control predicate, which must take its argument as qeq.

Woodley: I'm saying that in *I'm happy to eat chocolate*, it's happy(x)
/\\ and eat(x,chocolate).

Emily/David: That's not what that meants!

Woodley: Test.

Guy: *I'm happy to eat chocolate, but I didn't get to.*

Woodley: But we have other irrealis things: *I would eat chocolate.*

Guy: But there's a modal there.

Emily: Also not a test, but it would be unusual to find a VP complement
that is not a semantic argument of the (semantically contentful) thing
it's a complement to.

Guy: What was the original intuition?

Woodley: The non-scopal ones seem to be the ones that are predicated-ish
of the subject, so maybe that's a test?

Emily: The canonical non-scopal ones are manner, place, time, and then
maybe secondary predicates.

Woodley: Not sure about time, but can't manner and place be about the
subject.

\[ Work on finding a plausible example to pull apart the cases where the
subject and the event are not necessarily in the same place. \]

*Emily hit Stephan with a ball over there.* *Object-oriented programming
was invented over there.*

David: And with expletive subjects:

*It rained yesterday over there.* *It annoyed Kim in Oslo that the
trains were late.* *It was beaten to death at DELPH-IN that...*

Emily: So I think it was a red herring to try to have the non-scopal
modifiers attach to the subjects.

oe: Guy was effective in the earlier session at getting us to focus on
models, and not get tangled in the syntax/semantics interface.

oe: But back to syntax, you had another test?

Guy: The position of the adverb in the clause. *The dog barked,
probably* (pause required). Dan currently doesn't allow that in the ERG
with or without the comma.

oe: So *The dog barked never* shouldn't parse. And this is the case.

Emily: Is that bad? Maybe archaic or poetic.

oe: Even higher agreement for \**Never the dog barked.*

Emily: There's some special things going on with negation. *not* is very
special, negative inversion: *Never did the dog bark.*

Guy/David: But: *Quickly did the dog bark.*

Emily: So maybe the negative ones require inversion, while the others
allow it optionally (if archaically)

oe: Create table for testing positions, using set of adverbs ranging
from pretty certainly scopal to pretty certainly non-scopal.

    ___ Kim knows that ___ the dog ___ will ___ bark ___
     0                  1           2        3        4
    
    0 1 2 3 4  adverb
    - - - - -  not
    - - + + ?  never
    - + + + ?  probably
    - - + + ?  almost
    - + + + ?  allegedly
    ? + + + +  rarely
               often
    ? + - - +  for a long time
    + + - - +  in Paris
    + + - - +  here, 
    + + + + +  now
    ? ? ? + +  quickly
    ? ? ? + +  loudly
    
    
    NB: 0 is + only if the adverb can be intepreted as modifying bark.

Woodley: How about *In Paris, Berthold proposed that we hold the 14th
summit.*

David/oe: False! It was in Olso!

Emily: This is the kind of construction that is very
discourse-sensitive, so easy to star something that then turns up the
corpus.

David: Contrast can help.

Woodley: *Emily proposed that ACL be in Paris. Berthold wanted ACL to be
in Madrid. In Paris, Berthold suggested we have DELPH-IN.*

All: Yeah, that's fine.

Guy: Can we play the same game for the scopal ones?

Woodley: *Rarely, Woodley claimed that would adverbs not modify their
subject. Other people disagreed. Others suggested that this ws in fact
common. Rarely, they said/maintained adverbs would modify their
subjects.* ... hard to tell with the quotative in there.

All: Less convincing.

Guy: *Emily thought that the dog probably yowled. But Berthold thought
the dog certainly yowled and probably Berthold thought the cat yowled.*
... only getting high attachment, so here's a contrast.

oe: *Emily wanted to discuss scope for a long time. Berthold wanted to
discuss scope briefly. For a long time, Berhold wanted to discuss
Hausa.*

oe: *Kim likes to foxtrot slowly. Sandy likes to foxtrot quickly.
Slowly, Sandy likes to waltz.* That's pretty good!

Woodley: You want it to be good.

Guy: It's understandable...

Guy: *here, now, in Paris* are just placing the event, where *quickly*,
*loudly*, *for a long time* are adding to the description of the event.

David: *Kim knows that probably here the dog will bark.* Must be \[
probably here \]

Emily: So if there's only one slot there in position 1, that gives us an
argument for it to be extraction.

Guy: *Kim knows that now here the dog will bark.*

oe: That's spatio-temporal clumping, a known phenomenon: *On the bed in
the afternoon is a good hiding place.*

oe: So at least we've gathered some ... facts. I expect that H&P will
talk about scopal and non-scopal.

Emily: I don't. I expect them to have 6-7 categories, but it's worth
looking at those cateogeries and trying to align them with our
scopal/non-scopal.

Woodley: Most robust distinction seems to be position 4 being available
for putative non-scopal only.

David/Woodley: \**Kim knows that the dog will bark never.* *Kim knows
that the dog will bark almost never.* ??*Kim knows that here rarely the
dog will bark.* *Kim knows that here rarely will the dog bark.*

Emily: Is *rarely* temporal enough to participate in the spatio-temporal
clumping?

* * *

Guy: Example where EDS has lost too much info reconstruct:

*I met the person whose happy dog is healthy* vs. *I met the person
whose healthy dog is happy*

oe: The only remaining difference is that one is tensed and the other
one isn't.

Woodley: So do it with verbs:

*I met the person whose dog that barked smiled.* vs. *I met the person
whose dog that smiled barked.*

\[ This didn't parse in 1214, but does parse in trunk. \]
<update date omitted for speed>{% endraw %}