{% raw %}Suggestion: Organize a tutorial at some \*ACl next year

How much documentation is enough?

- \- One measure: when non-DELPH-IN people use the resources -
Another: See how often DELPH-IN resources are referenced in
publications

Two paths for dissemination

- \- Large projects standardizing on use of particular resource
  - \- e.g. Verbmobil, DARPA
  
  \- Grad students choosing 'new' resources for their research
  - \- Tutorial would help here - We should also talk to supervisors
to send students to the tutorial

Content of tutorial

- \- How to use existing resources? - How to interoperate - how to
interpret outputs?

Application developers want modularity

- \- What tasks do our resources help to solve?

The current ACL environment is friendly to semantics

- \- Our dependencies should be at least as good as existing
widely-used engines

Who would do the tutorial?

- \- Maybe two would deliver it, but others would help with
preparation - Sample applications, improved documentation
  - \- relation extraction - sentiment analysis - etc.

Black box packaging of some common configurations of our resources

- \- e.g. multilingual output of MRS in XML
  - \- have to acknowledge only partial coverage for some of our
languages
  
  \- see pyDelphin as a candidate platform - the term \`open-source'
can imply high level of technical expertise - we should aim to ease
integration with other frameworks such as NLTK - Semeval, LOGON, LTD
are examples of attempts at packaging up resources - Note that many
other well-known systems are also not simple to install/use - ACE is
getting close to turn-key, as well - maybe tune the defaults

Maybe priority is not just ease of use

- \- Benefits will motivate some considerable effort, if can't get it
another way
  - \- eg Stanford parser, or MALT vs Charniak
  
  \- Need to communicate distinctive services - extra benefit needs to
outweigh any higher cost.

Illustrate uses of our MRS outputs or treebanks

- \- DMRS easier to use than MRS - Maybe further packaging: say
ACE+pyDelphin - Identify tasks where even partial coverage is
benefitial in ensembles
  
  \- [SaarGraph](/SaarGraph): shows alignment of (D)MRS and
dependencies

Important to close the gap on unparsed inputs - robustness

- \- less important if using our resources in ensembles

Demonstrate packaging of output APIs, not just standard out - see
pyDelphin

Look for extrinsic evaluation settings

Propose SIG on preparing a tutorial, and expect that you will be
committed to helping if you attend.
<update date omitted for speed>{% endraw %}