{% raw %}My (pro) Noun Needs Your Verb

* * *

David Inman

"Temporal" Pronouns

3 categories, Recency, Overlap, and First

temporal pronoun both subj and obj

grammar currently treats as pronouns but wanting a new analysis

\- maybe an adverb?

Emily: could be an auxiliary

Dan: can you provide evidence that it must combine with the whole phrase
or just the verb?

David: there can be intervening words

Hans: can be more aux or modal, to make sure its in that class, you can
never use this without a verb?

A person who has changed overnight, could you say "me yesterday"

David: can use separately only as 3rd masculine, then its like an adverb

David: example: "I took her first (as my wife)"

OVERLAP always occurs with 2 clauses. This is definitely off-algebra.

Emily: looks like English adverb, whenever, takes a clause missing its
argument as its complement

Guy: a slash-based analysis, because David mentioned regular pronoun was
analyzed as a slash argument.

David: They can only have one per clause. Restricted slash list to one
and say if you have anything on slash list it must be co-indexed.

Emily: if these are not peripheral then slash-based gets stickier

Guy: what could go outside of it?

Dan: Why do you care if its peripheral? I'm an adverb that modifies a
verb with a gap. I modify the verb but I have access to the slash
argument.

Emily: fine for all but When

Emily: verb - pronoun - verb's other argument

Dan: When can take a complement. Where's the agreement?

Emily: Complement

Emily: Fish when I eat. Adverb that binds off the slash of the verb that
I modify.

Emily: no evidence of long distance dependency

Guy: also that its subject and object

Dan: seems to me that's compatible.

Emily: modifier will grab two hooks. Hook of adverb and hook of slash.

Dan: two functions at the same time: filler head and modifier, both are
legitimate.

David: Using slash list as handy way of keeping track of pronoun
restrictions

"that person when he see is collared peccary"

Guy: Could we have 3.when combined with person before the verb?

Emily: Could that person belong with the second phrase?

Dan: if slash-based works then predicates other things. fun to see what
happens in coordination.

Emily: coordinated phrase with the subject and object of two phrases
also interesting

Dan: Predictions being made that you could in principal test

David: If we are just using slash, then this is all on-algebra

Emily: operators associated with rules in latest papers, curious
algebra-wise how that gets worked out.

Dan: place to take of this may be lexical sub-categorization. May not be
a challenge to algebra because its done in the lexical item.

Emily: I agree, but want to see what it looks like.

Francis: can the filler say I'm look for a verb missing its arg 2?

Dan: No. But I do type the slash list.

"Which violin is this sonata easier to play on"

English makes two paths in. A verb phrase with two holes in it. Must
have a slash list with 2, slavic languages maybe more than 2.

David: it is a hack.

Dan: An interesting observation not a hack.

David: I don't think I'm using slash as it was defined for.

Dan: No, I think you are using it in the right way

"John admired and told his friend to buy a new Volkswagon"

Emily: what happens with wh-questions?

David: they move to the left

Emily: can they cross clause boundaries?

David: Yes, but I'll have to check the corpus.

Dan: "John said he caught a big fish, but where's the fish he said he's
caught"

David: I think straightforward to expand it to have slashes. Maybe take
care of it in ICONS

Emily: Using slash but not long distance.

David: don't think I have enough examples of this

Guy: could have wh-word and temporal pronoun. They you can't support
slash analysis.

David: I should check for other slashy things. Didn't have enough time.

Rapid discussion of similar analysis of similar phenomena.

David: has anyone come across cases where things called nouns but had
adverbials on it.

Dan: "He'll be here, Tuesday"

Emily: Paper on nominal tense...

Nordinger, Rachel, and Louisa Sadler. "Nominal Tense in crosslinguistic
perspective." Language (2004): 776-806

Last update: 2015-08-12 by StephanOepen [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/SingaporeTemporalPronouns/_edit)]{% endraw %}