{% raw %}This discussion took place over a coffee break, so no live note taking.

* * *

Woodley's notes:

Context: discussing the possibility of having the pronoun referential
indices for the possessor and the main subject be identical in an idiom
like "miss one's mark" or "look as though butter wouldn't melt in one's
mouth" (we suspend disbelief about that one being part of our language
for now)

1\. various attempts to come up with an example where doing so would run
afoul of scoping rules.

something like: "All children can't be trusted, even looking as though
butter wouldn't melt in their mouths."

If the subject of \_look\_v\_rel were "children", then the its
quantifier must be high -- (bad why?)

2\. what about getting the info out of syntax about what can and can't
corefer? Dan's allergic to binding theory, not much hope of those
constraints emerging.

3\. some discussion of what a delph-in-sanctioned representation of
coreference links should look like, that didn't reach much of a
conclusion

* * *

Some further recollections from Emily:

The reason we were worrying about those crazy examples was to try to
validate or obviate the concern that having one quantifier bind
variables so far apart in the MRS might lead to structures that were
untenable in some way.

One question was whether the language for representing coreference
groups (chains etc) should be the same as that used by the grammar for
representing constraints on possible/impossible antecedents given (what
we can model of) binding theory. I think the consensus was no, they
didn't have to be the same, but the discussion of what the coreference
group/chain representation should look like was inconclusive. It turned
partly on split-antecedent examples: *Kim likes Sandy and they went on a
date tonight.* The question here is whether the it is enough to say that
*they* denotes a group and assert that the referents of *Kim* and
*Sandy* are both members of that group, or if we should construct the
group separately and then have it be the antecedent of *they*, making
the treatment of the *they* instances in examples like the following
more consistent: *Kim likes Sandy. They went on a date tonight by the
end they had already made plans for more dates and they both seemed
happy.*

Last update: 2014-02-18 by EmilyBender [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/TheAbbey_Chrysalis2014PossessiveIdioms/_edit)]{% endraw %}