{% raw %}# ESD Test Suite Examples

    Someone old (maybe it was Abrams) arrived.

# Linguistic Characterization

A parenthetical, for our purposes, is a constituent set off from its
context by appropriate punctuation (parentheses, dashes, semi-colons)
and not integrated with that larger context via ‘ordinary’ syntactic and
semantic means. Such constituents have been the focus of debate in the
syntactic and pragmatic literature (see Blakemore 2006) regarding the
nature of their connection to the sentence. Some authors (e.g., Haegeman
1988) maintain that they are extra-grammatical, while others (e.g.,
Potts 2002, 2003) argue that they are generated by the grammar but
require special treatment in interpretation. For our purposes, given
that they are part of the string, the grammar must assign an analysis to
them somehow, including integrating them into the MRS. However, that
integration is necessarily ‘loose’, reflecting their special status.

# Motivating Examples

# ERS Fingerprints

On our analysis, the parenthetical predication relates parenthetical
clause (represented by the local top handle of the embedded clause) to
the host, in this case represented by the intrinsic argument (be it an
eventuality or an instance) of the constituent that the parenthetical
attaches to. In terms of the scope tree, the parenthetical relation is
attached by sharing the handle of the EP related to its syntactic
attachment site.

    h0:parenthetical[ARG1 i1, ARG2 h2]
    h0:[ARG0 i1]

# Interactions

# Reflections

- Potts (2002, 2003) notes that certain types of parentheticals (e.g.,
*as* parentheticals as in *They are, as you say, late.*) are
distinguished by the fact that they give rise to conventional
implicatures, rather than providing part of the asserted content.
This means that the portion of a structure that is parenthetical
must be identifiable from the representation used for
interpretation. Our parenthetical predicate, and the fact that this
is the only connection between the parenthetical material and the
rest of the MRS, should be sufficient for these purposes. Similarly,
Blakemore (2006) notes that what she calls ‘discourse
parentheticals’ (examples like our testsuite exmaple) are
interpreted as separate from their host clauses but make use of the
context the host clause provides. Again, the parenthetical
predication should provide both the demarcation in the semantic
representation and the connection required.
- This is (another) case where there is no qeq between the
handle-valued argument position (ARG2) of parenthetical and its
argument. This represents the claim that it would not be meaningful
for quantifiers to be able to scope in between these.

# Open Questions

- Blakemore notes that in the literature on the pragmatics of
parentheticals, other constructions, including apposition and
non-restrictive relatives are also often considered under the same
umbrella. Our analyses of these phenomena are not that close. Should
they be?
- Move this one to quasi-semantic phenomena?
- Say something more about the choice of ARG1 as a way to anchor this?
- The ARG1 can be x-type or e-type. Add an example to the testsuite?
  
  - *A consultant (maybe it was Abrams) arrived.*
- I'm not sure I'm on board with the lack of qeq here ... I'd like the
quantifiers to be able to go top-most in the parenthetical, rather
than having to ‘escape’ out to the matrix clause. Am I thinking
about this wrong?
- The fingerprints as given above don't lead to quite as much
highlighting as I'd like in the search interface. Alternative:

<!-- -->


    h0:parenthetical[ARG1 i1, ARG2 h2]
    h0:[ARG0 i1]
    h2:[ARG0 e]

# Expert External Commentary

# Grammar Version

- 1212

# References

Blakemore, D. (2006). Divisions of labour: The analysis of
parentheticals. *Lingua* 116(10):1670-1687.

Haegeman, L. (1988). Parenthetical adverbials: the radical orphanage
approach. In: Chiba, S. (Ed.), *Aspects of Modern English Linguistics*.
Kaitakushi, Tokyo, pp. 232–254.

Potts, C., (2002). The syntax and semantics of as-parentheticals. *NLLT*
20:623–689.

Potts, C., (2003). Conventional implicatures, a distinguished class of
meanings. In: Ramchand, G., Reiss, C. (Eds.), *The Oxford Handbook of
Linguistic Interfaces*. Oxford University Press, Oxford.

# More Information

- [ErgSemantics](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/erg/ErgSemantics) main page
- [Inventory](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/erg/ErgSemantics_Inventory) of semantic phenomena (to be)
documented
- [How to cite this work](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/erg/ErgSemantics_HowToCite)

Last update: 2015-06-04 by EmilyBender [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/ErgSemantics_Parentheticals/_edit)]{% endraw %}