{% raw %}# Overview

The LOGON system (see the [LogonTop](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/tools/LogonTop) page for background) is
scarcely blessed with technical documentation. However, for some of the
individual components and specific aspects of the system, a collection
of [technical reports](http://www.emmtee.net/reports/) provides some
background reading. As of late 2008, however, many of these documents
are in a relatively early stage of production, i.e. they may be
incomplete or at times a little rough in form. The LOGON developers make
this draft reports available in the hope that they can help interpret
more of the technical details of the LOGON MT infrastructure. Critical
feedback on these reports will be warmly welcomed by the authors.

# English Resource Grammar

Dan Flickinger provides a summary of adapting the ERG for use in the
Norwegian–English system configuration. LOGON [Technical Report \#
2007-7](http://www.emmtee.net/reports/7.pdf) is comparatively complete
and stable.

# Realization Ranking

In the context of Norwegian–English MT, Erik Velldal gives a condensed
overview of his [PhD
research](http://www.velldal.net/erik/pubs/Velldal08.pdf) on ranking
generation results, i.e. target language realization from transfer
outputs. LOGON [Technical Report \#
2007-10](http://www.emmtee.net/reports/10.pdf) was not quite completed
before Erik embarced on a [celebratory voyage](http://sailingkajsa.net/)
after his June 2008 PhD defense). When in doubt, the full [PhD
thesis](http://www.velldal.net/erik/pubs/Velldal08.pdf) may be a more
reliable reference.

# MRS-Based Transfer

Albeit very incomplete and sketchy in several respects, Stephan Oepen
provides a semi-formal summary of the MRS transfer formalism developed
in the LOGON project. LOGON [Technical Report \#
2007-11](http://www.emmtee.net/reports/11.pdf) should be read with a
grain of salt, but will hopefully be extended in the foreseeable future
to fill in the remaining gaps.

# Open Source Machine Translation

Originally as a visiting researcher to the Norwegian LOGON consortium,
Francis Bond (and colleagues at NAIST, NICT, and NTT) was the first to
apply the LOGON infrastructure to another language pair,
Japanese–English MT. LOGON [Technical Report \#
2007-21](http://www.emmtee.net/reports/21.pdf) reviews some of the
design decisions and challenges in adapting the original LOGON
technology to other language pairs.

Last update: 2011-10-09 by anonymous [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/LogonReports/_edit)]{% endraw %}