{% raw %}# Agenda

- Express profound gratitude to local organizers
- Unveil new outward-facing web pages (finally!)
- Thank Ant√≥nio for kind offer, as is traditional check whether there
are competing bids (no)
  - Accept the kind offer from Lisboa
- Solicit input from group on the format of the Summit
- Other business?

# Notes

Notes from discussion regarding format:

Tim: Shoudl we consider posters?

Bec/Emily: No

Tim/group: -- or virtual poster gallery; time for demos (and call for
demos)

Woodley: if there's a paper published on it I can read the paper, but
talking to you face to face can only be here

Group: Site updates good, but don't get into the details of the work

Bec: thematic talk sessions followed by un-topiced discussion slots that
can be taken over by discussion of what came up from the talks

Francis: description of the summit should include invitation to new
folks to track down insiders to ask for help with running software, to
help people not be shy

Ann: But don't want to rely on one-on-one. If someone still needs help
after reading the wiki page, maybe the person receiving help should
update the wiki.

oe: the developers list is currently the best channel

Francis: Policy at NTU is that if anyone receives help on developers,
they are responsible for putting the info on the wiki as well
<update date omitted for speed>{% endraw %}