{% raw %}Schedule for the [9th Summit (Saarland)](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandTop)

Contact Emily and Francis with suggestions for changes.

### Schedule

|                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
|                                    **Monday 29 July**                                    |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                          9-9:30                                          |                                                           [Opening Tutorial](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/howto/DelphinTutorial) (Emily,oe)                                                           |
|                     9:35-10:50 *Plenary Session 1* (Chair: Rebecca)                      |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                        9:35-9:40                                         |                                                                       Opening Remarks (Dan)                                                                        |
|                                        9:40-10:05                                        |                                               [Site Update NTU/NTT](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/ntu.pdf) (Francis)                                                |
|                                       10:05-10:20                                        |                                               [Site Update Trondheim](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/ntnu.pdf) (Lars)                                                |
|                                       10:20-10:35                                        |                                       [Site Update (MPhil work) Cambridge](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/cambridge.pdf) (Ann)                                       |
|                                       10:35-10:50                                        |                                              [Site Update UW (& beyond)](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/uw.pdf) (Emily)                                              |
|                                10:50-11:20 *Coffee break*                                |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                     11:20-13:00 *Plenary Session 2* (Chair: Petter)                      |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                       11:20-11:35                                        |                                                              [Site Update UiO](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LtgOslo_Delphin) (oe)                                                               |
|                                       11:35-11:55                                        |                                            [Site Update Barcelona](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/barcelona.pdf) (Montse)                                            |
|                                       11:55-12:15                                        |                                                  [BURGER Update](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/sofia.pdf) (Petya)                                                   |
|                                       12:15-12:40                                        |                                           [Linked Open Data and DELPH-IN](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/lod.pdf) (Antske)                                           |
|                                       12:40-13:00                                        |                                       Discussion: [ERG/WordNet Linking](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LexsemMapping) (Moderator: Francis, Scribe: Liling)                                        |
|                              13:00-14:00 *Lunch* (on site)                               |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                      14:00-16:00 *Plenary Session 3* (Chair: Tania)                      |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                       14:00-14:30                                        |      Discussion: [SEM-I history, future, cross-linguistic harmonization](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandSemi) (Moderator: Emily, Scribe: Woodley; background: [RmrsSemi](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/tools/RmrsSemi))       |
|                                       14:30-14:55                                        |                         [Sentence Realization with Unlexicalized Tree Linearization Grammars](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/rui.pdf) (Rui)                          |
|                                       14:55-15:20                                        |                                                                     Sprinter Project (Walter)                                                                      |
|                                       15:20-15:40                                        |                    [Update on Language Arts course: Using DELPH-IN Resources in Online Education](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/epgy.pdf) (Dan)                     |
|                                       15:40-16:00                                        |                   Discussion: [TDL formalism, potential extensions and new applications](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandTdlDiscussion) (Moderator: Yi, Scribe: Rebecca)                   |
|                                16:00-16:30 *Coffee break*                                |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                     16:30-18:10 *Plenary Session 4* (Chair: Woodley)                     |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                       16:30-16:55                                        |                                  [Beginning a DELPH-IN grammar for Lushootseed](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/joshua.pdf) (Joshua)                                  |
|                                       16:55-17:20                                        |         [A combined presentation and demonstration of the INESS treebanking infrastructure](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/iness.pdf) (Petter, from Bergen)          |
|                                       17:20-17:45                                        |                           [Recap of UW seminar on MRS and other semantic representations](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/kwlh.pdf) (Emily)                           |
|                                       17:45-18:10                                        |                                 [Report on CSLI participation in CoNLL shared task](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/conll.pdf) (Dan)                                  |
|                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                   **Tuesday 30 July**                                    |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                       9-10:35 *Plenary Session 5* (Chair: Antske)                        |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                        9:00-9:25                                         | [The parse tree / constituent tree distinction in a computational grammar of Hebrew (HaGram)](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/haifa.pdf) (Petter, from OUI and Haifa) |
|                                        9:25-9:50                                         |                                           [MMT with ICONS and ACE](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/sanghoun.pdf) (Sanghoun)                                           |
|                                        9:50-10:10                                        |                                       [Site Update Lisbon: New projects](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/lisbon.pdf) (António)                                        |
|                                       10:10-10:25                                        |                                       [Site Update Saarbruecken/DFKI](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/saarland.pdf) (Hans & Yi)                                       |
|                                       10:25-10:40                                        |                                                 [Site Update LLF](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/llf.pdf) (Berthold)                                                 |
|                                10:40-11:10 *Coffee break*                                |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                       11:10-12:50 *Plenary Session 6* (Chair: Ann)                       |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                       11:10-11:35                                        |                                                     [Übertagging](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/bec.pdf) (Bec)                                                      |
|                                       11:35-12:00                                        |                               [Assigning Deep Lexical Types in Portuguese and English](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/joao.pdf) (João)                               |
|                                       12:00-12:25                                        |                               [Combining Deep NLP with Temporal Extraction](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/francisco.pdf) (Francisco)                                |
|                                       12:25-12:50                                        |                                           [Constructing a Phenomenal Corpus](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/ned.pdf) (Ned)                                           |
|                              12:50-13:50 *Lunch* (on site)                               |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                      13:50-15:35 *Plenary Session 7* (Chair: Mike)                       |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                       13:50-14:15                                        |                                       [ERG Semantic Documentation](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/erg/ErgSemantics): Progress report & outlook (Emily, oe, Dan)                                       |
|                                       14:15-14:35                                        |                        Discussion: [Usability/ease of set-up](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandUseability) (Moderator: Ann, Scribe: Mathieu) PaperCuts                         |
|                                       14:35-14:55                                        |                     Discussion: [Packaging phenomena-annotated corpora](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandPackagingPhenomenalCorpora) (Moderator: Ned, Scribe: Prescott)                     |
|                                       14:55-15:20                                        |                                                  [CLIMB Update](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/climb.pdf) (Antske)                                                   |
|                                       15:20-15:35                                        |                                             [Site update Melbourne](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/melbourne.pdf) (Tim)                                              |
|                                15:35-16:05 *Coffee break*                                |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                     16:05-18:05 *Plenary Session 8* (Chair: Stephan)                     |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                       16:05-16:30                                        |         [Bootstrapping a Thai parse selection model via ERG translation pairing and SVD-mapped semantics](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/glenn.pdf) (Glenn)          |
|                                       16:30-16:55                                        |                                 [Distributional semantics for PP attachment ambiguity](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/guy.pdf) (Guy)                                 |
|                                       16:55-17:20                                        |                  [Efficient HPSG generation for a non-configurational language](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/realization.pdf) (Berthold, Woodley)                  |
|                                       17:20-17:45                                        |                        [(D)MRS Comparison](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/mathieu.pdf) (Mathieu) Followed by [mini discussion](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandArity)                        |
|                                       17:45-18:05                                        |                                    Discussion: [Parsing social media data](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandSocialMedia) (Moderator: Tim; Scribe: Emily)                                    |
|                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                  **Wednesday 31 July**                                   |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                        9-10:30 *Plenary Session 9* (Chair: Lars)                         |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                        9:00-9:25                                         |                                                            [Business meeting](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandBusinessMeeting)                                                             |
|                                        9:25-9:50                                         |                               [Fact Extraction using Controlled English and the ERG](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/david.pdf) (David)                               |
|                                        9:50-10:15                                        |                                      [Parser evaluation using DeepBank](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/angelina.pdf) (Angelina)                                      |
|                                       10:15-10:30                                        |        Discussion: [DELPH-IN tools aka tell us what you've made](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandToolsDiscussion) (Moderator: Mike, Scribe: Petter, See also: [ToolsTop](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/tools/ToolsTop))        |
|                                 10:30-11 *Coffee break*                                  |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                       11-13:00 *Plenary Session 10* (Chair: Glenn)                       |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                       11:00-11:25                                        |                  [Mapping MRS representations to Discourse Representation Structures (DRS)](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/prescott.pdf) (Prescott)                  |
|                                       11:25-11:50                                        |                                                [Statistical transfer](http://www.delph-in.net/2013/mike.pdf) (Mike)                                                |
|                                       11:50-12:10                                        |                           Discussion: [Incorporating ICONS into DELPH-IN processors](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandIcons) (Moderator: Sanghoun, Scribe: Mike)                            |
|                                       12:10-12:30                                        |                         Discussion: [Subsumption checks in generation](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandMrsSubsumptionDiscussion) (Moderator: Woodley, Scribe: Rui)                         |
|                                       12:30-13:00                                        |                                                 SIG introduction and organization (Emily, Francis) See list below                                                  |
|                              13:00-14:00 *Lunch* (on site)                               |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|              14:00- *Excursion to [Bostalsee](http://www.bostalsee.de/en/)*              |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 19:00- *Banquet at [Schreiner's Restaurant](http://schreiners-restaurant.de/index.html)* |                                                                                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                                                    |

|                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
|                                        **Thursday 1 August**                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                       Room 1 (Same as plenary)                                       |                                                                                           Other room                                                                                           |
|                                       9-10:30 *SIG Session 1*                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|   Getting started with ACE (Woodley) and agree (Glenn) Notes: [SaarlandAceAgree](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/howto/SaarlandAceAgree)   |                                                           LTOP on NP (Emily) Notes: [SaarlandLtopDiscussion](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandLtopDiscussion)                                                           |
|                                       10:30-11 *Coffee break*                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                       11-12:30 *SIG Session 2*                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                              LUI chart generator browser (Woodley, Dan)                              | MWE- specifically [PARSEME](http://www.cost.eu/domains_actions/ict/Actions/IC1207) and PARSEME/DELPH-IN coordination/collaboration (Ann) Notes: [SaarlandMweDiscussion](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandMweDiscussion) |
|                                    12:30-13:30 *Lunch* (on site)                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                     13:00-15:00 *SIG Session 3*                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| [PCFG and dependency conversion+parsing with DeepBank(s)](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandPcfgDependency) (Yi, oe, Angelina) |                                                  Use of \[incr tsdb()\] tools for checking semantic well-formedness on parsed profiles (Dan)                                                   |
|                                      15:00-15:30 *Coffee break*                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                     15:30-17:00 *SIG Session 4*                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|         [Improved representation of semantics of tense/aspect in MRSs](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandTense) (Dan)          |                                                                          [WN/ERG mapping](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandWordNet) (Francis)                                                                           |
|                                           BBQ at Melanie's                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                         **Friday 2 August**                                          |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                        9-10:30 SIG Session 5                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                    [Comparing MRSs - tools and methods](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandCompareMRS) (Dan)                    |                                                                      [ICONS in ERG and Jacy](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandIconsErg) (Sanghoun)                                                                      |
|                                        10:30-11 Coffee break                                         |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                        11-12:30 SIG Session 6                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|      [Phenomenon-specific discussion of improvements to MRSs](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/garage/SaarlandSententialArgument) (Dan)      |                                                               Formalizing (in)formalisms (possibly with updated DTDs for \*MRS)                                                                |
|                                    12:30-13:30 Lunch *(on site)*                                     |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                      13:00-15:00 SIG Session 7                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                  Full forest treebanking (Woodley)                                   |                                                           [Vague, high-level, general formalism discussion](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandFormalism) (Yi)                                                            |
|                                       15:00-15:30 Coffee break                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                      15:30-17:00 SIG Session 8                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                [Creation and coordination of valency frames](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandValence) (Lars)                 |                                                                         [Scope of negation SIG](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/SaarlandNegScope) (oe)                                                                         |

### SIGs

- Phenomenon-specific discussion of improvements to MRSs (Dan)
  - Francis, oe, bec?, Joshua, ned, sanghoun, liling, Tania, Petter,
Petya, David (++)
- Improved representation of semantics of tense/aspect in MRSs (Dan)
  - Rui?, Tania, Pety, David
- Creation and coordination of valency frames (Lars)
  - Francis, Joshua, yi, Rui, ned, Tim, liling, Tania, Petter, Petya
- ICONS in ERG and Jacy (Sanghoun)
  - oe, woodley, Francis
- Formalizing (in)formalisms (possibly with updated DTDs for \*MRS)
(Moderator: Mike, Scribe: TBD)
  - oe, woodley, Francis, bec, Joshua, Mathieu, sanghoun, David
- Scope of negation SIG (emily)
  - oe, woodley, bec, Joshua, Rui, David?
- LTOP on NP (see [discussion on the rmrs
list](http://lists.delph-in.net/archives/rmrs/2013/000108.html));
ydd *zeyen* might also be relevant (Emily)
  
  - oe, Joshua, sanghoun, David?
- ERG 1212 release party and [DeepBank](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/garage/DeepBank) packaging (dan, oe,
yi; *closed*)
- Revisiting reducing complexity (antske, can be short: e.g. a coffee
break discussion)
- MWE - specifically PARSEME and PARSEME/DELPH-IN
coordination/collaboration (Ann)
  - oe, Francis, Lars, Tim, (yi?), liling, Petter, Montse, Petya
- WN/ERG mapping (Francis)
  - Antske, woodley, Liling, Mathieu, Tim, sanghoun, Angelina,
Tania, Petter, Petya
- LUI generator chart browser (woodley, dan)
  - oe, woodley, bernd (maybe)
- Comparing MRSs - tools and methods (dan)
  - bec, yi, Rui, Mathieu, sanghoun, Prescott, Francis (low)
- PCFG and dependency conversion+parsing with [DeepBank](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/garage/DeepBank)(s)
(yi, oe, angelina)
  
  - Rui, Mathieu, Tim, Prescott, Montse
- Vague, high-level, general formalism discussion (yi)
  - Rui, oe, Tania

### Tutorials-type SIGs

- Full forest treebanking (Woodley) \[SrIG\]
  - woodley, Francis, bec
- How to get started with ACE (Woodley) and AGREE \[tentative\]
(Glenn) \[SIG\]
  - Antske, woodley, yi, Rui, ned, sanghoun, Prescott, Angelina,
Bernd, Tania, Petter, Petya, David
  - (liling: can we record this somehow, or take note of the
specific steps and then post it somewhere as video/walkthrough
tutorial?)
- Use of \[incr tsdb()\] tools for checking semantic well-formedness
on parsed profiles (Dan) \[SIG\]
  - bec, Rui, ned, Montse

### Other ideas

- Maybe try a couple of documentation sprints (like minor [book
sprints](http://www.booksprints.net/))
  
  - something on chart mapping?
  - something on language modeling?
  - something on unspoken MRS conventions?
- PaperCuts
- Work towards releasing MRS Testsuite treebanks as a parallel
treebank resource

Last update: 2013-09-04 by EmilyBender [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/SaarlandSchedule/_edit)]{% endraw %}