{% raw %}This is a page about the Slavic Matrix developed in Saarbruecken and
Sofia.

Here are the notes from the Subgroup activity taking place at the
Suquamish delph-in summit:

Varya's grammar: phenomena to be added soon. Yi: what has been done on
your side? What are your ideas... Varya: quesiton on embedded clauses,
and main interrogatives. It's small (70 items lexicon), we also cover
negation. Those were the three things you're interested in. embedded
clauses: complements of "think" or "ask". Yi: Case? Varya: Genitive
negation is not there yet Yi: Tania would like a more thorough
investigation to the phenomenon. Tania: Tense and aspect in Slavic
languages: commonalities, but there are also commonalities. Yi: Of
course the aspect: general Slavic is important, there must be decent
coverage of individual languages, so that we can do treebanking Emily:
can we do a workflow where this is marked? Pan Slavic considered or not?
Yi: Name space concept on types? Needn't be adaptation of formalism: can
be a convention of prefixes in names...from our side: this is only part
of the hierarchy, it is hard to keep track Dan: the name space idea is
appealing to me too: virtue of file organization: relatively easy to
manage, easy to maintain: problem: how do you decide when to move AND no
longer present as soon is loaded in LKB, suffix better than prefix
Emily: ISO code also has family codes Dan: you'd need a hierarchy for
cross-classification? Emily: bigger question: code sharing between
languages smaller than entire family: sub-families? Antske: Should be
possible with the metagrammar engineering: automatic suffix adding
should be easy enough: could capture sub-family properties Emily:
realize that it can be done as well as grammar is already advanced:
starting with big chunks, than back out parts Yi: compatible with
Tania's work way: try out then decide...

.....

Dan: possible problem: what will Petya think? Is it worth-while:
additional research question and brittle method being
involved...methodology training... Emily: Can be done only at SB-side,
then just porting slavic.tdl: would mean less feedback from Bulgarian.

Emily: separate set of questions: joint test suites. Test-suite is
rather small... Yi: Do we have a larger test-suite? Tania: we do have
the idea to get a joint test-suite: we need to get morpho-syntactic
test-suites, we have one for Polish, Petya works on Bulgarian, and we
need this too. We'd like it parallel between Slavic languages, we don't
have it at the moment. We can talk to Varya... Yi: How about getting
Treebanks? The little Prince Emily: there is some appeal, but Francis
schooled us on license issues. Varya: 13 chapters annotated for
information structure and tense and aspect. Tania: but not parsed?
Emily: I told them no phrase-structure annotations, because the grammars
will do that. Yi: Collaboration with Moscow people who gave us a very
large dependency treebank. Joshua: there is a three letter code for
slavic languages Yi: underscore or hyphen... Dan: I suggest using
hyphens everywhere, or at least do underscores everywhere...has the
meeting taken place?

Tania: it will be in summer Emily: can we make additions? Tania: yes
Emily: should we use a shared repository? Yi: we'd like to keep hosting
it in sb, it is already been shared with Sofia Tania: is little prince a
focus? Are there special phenomena of interest? Emily: useful for
information structure annotations which we are interesting in. What
phenomena? Varya + Songhoun: First person narrator, lot of vocatives
Tania: additional task: get vocabulary for little prince Yi: work on
automatic acquisition Tania: but not necessarily that of the little
prince... Emily: we would need to get the vocab together, but not just
focus on this text Tania: Preferable not a translation Dan: Can you look
for a short story, not too long easy narrative, easy, ideally one that
has correspondence in other Slavic languages. Tania: Parallel corpora
would be great Dan: Parallel corpora with Russian original resource must
be in Russian Tania: possibly Communist Manifesto Agree: seems to be a
good idea, lot of languages, open source by now...government
supervision? Emily: short text, not parallel, there is always wikipedia.
Dan: it is a particular genre, that misses certain phenomena. Varya:
Sherlock Holmes? Francis mentioned, translated in many languages...
Emily: all languages do also need some authentical text Varya: Tania,
you were asking about the things observed in Little Prince? Pro-drop
Tania: there are a lot of fragments.. Emily: they are independent Varya:
Word order in terms of information structure could be interesting, but
it is mostly neutral
<update date omitted for speed>{% endraw %}