{% raw %}Chris: Does one-place *eat* necessarily imply an unexpressed second
argument?

Joshua: What's wrong with leaving a predicate argument unexpressed? If
you have a two place relation and one is left unexpressed.

Dan: Could certainly do that for passive. That doesn't seem wrong at
all. I was imagining more interesting places like causative -&gt;
inchoative, where it seems maybe wrong to have the inchoative as two
place; maybe you should have had a two-place predication. But if you
have reason to say the two-place predicate is the underlying one.

Joshua: So not formally wrong, just feels wrong?

Dan: There may be regularities in the language that cause you to regret
that.

Ron: A parallel semantic operation like existential closure?

Emily: That's why Dan picked causative/inchoative.

Dan: Could tell people to go back through the lexicon and

Ron: How did the door open if nothing caused it too? ... The door opened
itself.

Emily: What about a language where the 'drop'/'fall' pair has this
property. Doyou really want 'fall' to have an agent?

Martin: The door opened/The door was opened. One implies an agent and
the other one doesn't.

Francis: Can't we put in something that says, "I'm the thing that
doesn't exist."

Ron: That's exactly what I wasn't thinking about.

Chris: The eaxmple from the VLAD session was benefactive in Lakota
combined with a repreated de-objective. I cooked food. I cooked food for
my family. I cooked-deobj-deobj (things for someone).

Guy: In that case it seems quite valid to have them in the semantics as
unexpressed arguments. Wouldn't it be sensible to then ask "What did you
cook?" But *The leaf fell./\#What dropped it?*

Joshua: Or *\#/Who did it fall for*?

Dan: Maybe bracket this as a genuine worry regarding maintaining
integrity in the arity of these predicates, but if the issue is only
with causative, we'll waive our hands.

Alex: I want to pour cold water on using follow up questions as test for
what the MRS shoudl look like. That's really testing whether the
presuppositions that come with the question can be accommodated:

*The door opened. Who opened it?* *The flower opened. \#Who opened it.*

=&gt; difference turns on world knowledge.

Guy: Is there a better test?

Alex: Can't think of one, but don't use that one.

Berthold: Farrell Ackerman on Moro where indirect and direct objects can
passivize & there's a generalized applicative, turning an adjunct into
yet another complement that can passive. Did you look at which
additional argument will/will not be available for the next layer of
valence changing rule?

Chris: Starting from the supposition that they're all available, because
Lakota. There are also limits that I need to look

Mike: *Can you drop more than one argument?* / *You bet you can.*

Emily: That's argument optionality, not Chris's problem (but see
Safiyyah's library).

Emily: \[Scribe's post-script --- see [VLAD session on
this.](https://delph-in.github.io/docs/summits/LADValenceChange) \]

Last update: 2016-06-17 by EmilyBender [[edit](https://github.com/delph-in/docs/wiki/StanfordMcValenceChangeFace/_edit)]{% endraw %}